Hey everyone.
Welcome to 2020 western
continental Secular Solstice.
This has been a
pretty intense year.
This is going to be a
pretty weird Solstice, and I'm
sorry.
And I'm sorry in particular
that we can't all, like,
actually be together
physically where, like, you
can be like, ah, there's a
monkey singing and I'm also a
monkey and I'm singing and
we're all singing together and
ah! singing together monkeys is
great!
And we're not going to have
that in the canonical way
you might think of that this
year
and that's sad.
But
I am in fact kind of excited
about the fact that in some ways
We are more all together this
year than we ever have been in
the past.
There's people tuning in here
from Berkeley and from Boston
and from New Hampshire and
from undisclosed locations in
the woods, and I
am, like,
just sort of boggled by the
prospect of
all of us being together like
never before.
We have put
a
stupidly ridiculous amount of
effort into building this
custom Solstice app so we can
all sing together for actuals.
I hope it works.
Now some of you might be, like,
okay, so I've been to like 10
Secular Solstices,
And this one's all weird and
different and it's in a little
rectangle and is it really
going to be the same and
what's exactly going to happen
to me?
I don't know, and I'm a little
bit scared.
And some of you might be like,
whoa,
I've never been to a Secular
Solstice before in my life,
and I went to this one because
it was ridiculously convenient.
And I'm not even wearing pants.
But also, what's going to
happen to me though,
I don't really know what's
going on.
To both of you,
we will answer those questions
in
just a second.
But first
we've got a little story for
you.
The winter solstice is the
longest night of the year.
It marks the beginning of the
return of the light.
For ancient peoples, whether
you are dealing with literal
ice and snow
or just a cold and rainy season,
it's important to know when the
year would end.
It's a sort of default
holiday of sorts for humanity.
And
along the way,
people had stories talking
about this.
They shared stories of Gods
getting angry, or of Gods
getting reborn,
but no matter who you were,
or what stories you had,
there was a question that you
were faced with:
when would the winter come?
And it mattered that you go
beyond those stories, that you
actually go outside into the
world, and that you look.
There was a right answer about
when the darkness would come
and when the light would return.
And knowing the right answer
might determine whether your
community survived.
Now
it's not the literal
astronomical Solstice today.
That's a couple days away and
we're a little early.
But
we're gathered here tonight to
face the coming darkness
together,
and how are people brought
light into the world?
And as we do that, we will be
undertaking a few different
journeys together.
We'll be journeying from light
to dark to light again.
And
at the same time we'll be
journeying from the past to
the present
and into the future.
And hopefully
we'll be
journeying from a little
uncomfortable singing out loud
in our living rooms to fully
comfortable with that.
If you're new, you might not
know most of the songs.
That's okay.
If you don't think that you're
good at singing,
that's totally fine.
Solstice is about singing
together and even if you've
never heard a song before,
we'd love to hear you.
Now what concretely will happen
tonight?
First,
this will be about 2 hours long.
It will involve a lot of
singing and a lot of listening
to stories.
On the right side of the screen
is a chat widget.
For the first 30 minutes that
widget will be up and you can
100 line:1
chat with each other about
what's going on,
101 line:1
or catch up, or just generally
be virtual humans together.
102 line:1
But after those 30 minutes,
after we've settled in, the
103 line:1
chat will turn off.
104 line:1
And we'll begin our descent
into darkness
105 line:1
and try to get into a virtual
head space.
106 line:1
As we descend into darkness,
some of the content may make
107 line:1
you feel uncomfortable.
108 line:1
This holiday is about facing
difficult truths together.
109 line:1
But the way that we've put
together tonight's Solstice
110 line:1
doesn't have to be the way
that everyone faces it.
111 line:1
So if you're not in a good head
space
112 line:1
to reflect on how awful reality
can be, that's okay.
113 line:1
You can take a break and come
back or you can tap out and
114 line:1
come to the after party
afterwards.
115 line:1
We'll also have a corner at the
after party for people to help
116 line:1
each other process things.
117 line:1
Now
118 line:1
there will be speeches and
those speeches will make
119 line:1
assertions.
120 line:1
We care a lot about not saying
false things at Solstice and
121 line:1
we've put a lot of effort into
not saying false things,
122 line:1
but the universe is
123 line:1
a messy complicated place,
124 line:1
and we might not all believe
the exact same things about
125 line:1
how the world is or how to
relate to it.
126 line:1
So if someone says something
you don't agree with, that's
127 line:1
okay.
128 line:1
Solstice is about collectively
seeking truth together,
129 line:1
but it's okay
130 line:1
if we're not all on the same
page at the same time.
131 line:1
Finally on a logistical note,
if you've got some candles
132 line:1
with you,
133 line:1
now is a good time to light
them.
134 line:1
Over the course of the night,
the visuals will get darker
135 line:1
and we encourage you to turn
your lights off as that happens.